 Computer Science and Information Technology (CS) 
Page 1 of 7
Organizing Institute: IIT Kanpur
General Aptitude (GA)
– Q.5 Carry ONE mark Each
Q.1 We reached the station late, and _______ missed the train.
(A) near
(B) nearly
(C) utterly 
(D) mostly
Q.2 Kind : _______ : : Often : Frequently
(By word meaning)
(A) Mean
(B) Type
(C) Cruel
(D) Kindly
Q.1
 Computer Science and Information Technology (CS) 
Page 2 of 7
Organizing Institute: IIT Kanpur
Q.3 A series of natural numbers F1, F2, F3, F4, F5, F6, F7, ... obeys Fn+1 = Fn + Fn-1
for all integers n >= 2 .
If F6 = 37, and F7 = 60, then what is F1 ?
(A) 4
(B) 5
(C) 8
(D) 9
 Computer Science and Information Technology (CS) 
Page 3 of 7
Organizing Institute: IIT Kanpur
Q.4 A survey for a certain year found that 90% of pregnant women received medical
care at least once before giving birth. Of these women, 60% received medical care 
from doctors, while 40% received medical care from other healthcare providers.
Given this information, which one of the following statements can be inferred with 
certainty? 
(A) More than half of the pregnant women received medical care at least once from a 
doctor.
(B) Less than half of the pregnant women received medical care at least once from a 
doctor.
(C) More than half of the pregnant women received medical care at most once from a 
doctor.
(D) Less than half of the pregnant women received medical care at most once from a 
doctor.
Q.5 Looking at the surface of a smooth 3-dimensional object from the outside, which 
one of the following options is TRUE?
(A) The surface of the object must be concave everywhere.
(B) The surface of the object must be convex everywhere.
(C) The surface of the object may be concave in some places and convex in other places.
(D) The object can have edges, but no corners.
Q.6 - Q.10 Carry TWO marks Each
Q.6 The country of Zombieland is in distress since more than 75% of its working 
population is suffering from serious health issues. Studies conducted by competent 
health experts concluded that a complete lack of physical exercise among its 
working population was one of the leading causes of their health issues. As one of 
the measures to address the problem, the Government of Zombieland has decided 
to provide monetary incentives to those who ride bicycles to work. 
Based only on the information provided above, which one of the following 
statements can be logically inferred with certainty?
(A) All the working population of Zombieland will henceforth ride bicycles to work.
(B) Riding bicycles will ensure that all of the working population of Zombieland is free 
of health issues.
(C) The health experts suggested to the Government of Zombieland to declare riding 
bicycles as mandatory.
(D) The Government of Zombieland believes that riding bicycles is a form of physical 
exercise.
Q.11 - Q.35 Carry ONE mark each.
Q.11
Which one of the following sequences when stored in an array at locations
A[1],...,A[10] forms a max-heap?
(A) 23, 17, 10, 6, 13, 14, 1, 5, 7, 12
(B) 23, 17, 14, 7, 13, 10, 1, 5, 6, 12
(C) 23, 17, 14, 6, 13, 10, 1, 5, 7, 15
(D) 23, 14, 17, 1, 10, 13, 16, 12, 7, 5
Q.12
Let SLLdel be a function that deletes a node in a singly-linked list given a pointer
to the node and a pointer to the head of the list. Similarly, let DLLdel be another
function that deletes a node in a doubly-linked list given a pointer to the node and
a pointer to the head of the list.
Let n denote the number of nodes in each of the linked lists. Which one of the
following choices is TRUE about the worst-case time complexity of SLLdel and
DLLdel?
(A) SLLdel is O(1) and DLLdel is O(n)
(B) Both SLLdel and DLLdel are O(log(n))
(C) Both SLLdel and DLLdel are O(1)
(D) SLLdel is O(n) and DLLdel is O(1)
Q.14
The Lucas sequence Ln is defined by the recurrence relation:
Ln = Ln-1 + Ln-2, for n >= 3, with L1 = 1 and L2 = 3.
Which one of the options given is TRUE?
(A) A closed form using golden-ratio-like terms, sum variant
(B) A closed form using golden-ratio-like terms, sum-with-power-3 variant
(C) A closed form using golden-ratio-like terms, alternate sum-with-power-3 variant
(D) A closed form using golden-ratio-like terms, difference variant
Q.15
Which one of the options given below refers to the degree (or arity) of a relation in
relational database systems?
(A) Number of attributes of its relation schema.
(B) Number of tuples stored in the relation.
(C) Number of entries in the relation.
(D) Number of distinct domains of its relation schema.
Q.21
Which one or more of the following need to be saved on a context switch from one
thread (T1) of a process to another thread (T2) of the same process?
(A) Page table base register
(B) Stack pointer
(C) Program counter
(D) General purpose registers
Q.55
Let U = {1, 2, 3}. Let 2U denote the powerset of U. Consider an undirected graph
G whose vertex set is 2U . For any A, B in 2U, (A, B) is an edge in G if and only
if (i) A != B, and (ii) either A is a subset of B or B is a subset of A. For any vertex A in G, the set of
all possible orderings in which the vertices of G can be visited in a Breadth First
Search (BFS) starting from A is denoted by B(A).
If the empty set is denoted by phi, then the cardinality of B(phi) is ____.
Q.60
Consider the following table named Student in a relational database. The primary
key of this table is rollNum.
Student table: rollNum, name, gender, marks
1 Naman M 62
2 Aliya F 70
3 Aliya F 80
4 James M 82
5 Swati F 65
The SQL query below is executed on this database.
SELECT * FROM Student WHERE gender = 'F' AND marks > 65;
The number of rows returned by the query is ____.
